# February 2026

### Sunday, February 1
Vienna. We checked into a suprisingly spacious room on Albertinaplatz with cozy window nooks. Napped. Ate dumplings and fried rice at a decent Chinese spot on Krugerstraße, then I sat in the alcove overlooking the drizzly square and finished the 39th episode of Midnight Radio.

### Monday, February 2
Thirteen years sober and another year older. Eggs florentine before a day at the Albertina, a former palace filled with gilded halls that might have once felt opulent but looked like totalitorian kitsch thanks to the taste of my country’s current president. I was struck by a description of <a href=“https://sammlungenonline.albertina.at/en/objects/details/351377”>Franz Sedlacek’s paintings</a> as “representing nostalgic landscapes of the soul.” 

Perhaps one day I will read Kandinsky’s <em>Concerning the Spiritual in Art</em>, but the real action is the yellow shock of <a href=“https://bsky.app/profile/jamesreeves.co/post/3mduusmvzak26”>Max Ernst’s flowers</a>. Why does painting move me more than sculpture or drawing or photography? 

Dinner at a dim sum joint crammed with so many Chinese people I briefly thought we were back in Taipei. Two orders of dumplings and some chili oil noodles while we talked about self-punishment and perfectionism as mutations of the ego.

### Tuesday, February 3
Apricot crepes for breakfast at Cafe Tirolerhof, an ancient parlor with vivid upholstery and elderly people nursing cakes and newspapers. Onwards to the Kunsthistorische Museum to see some big-budget Bruegel: the high drama of the Procession to Calvary and the tower of Babel. Scenes of peasant feasts, Saul’s suicide, and hunters tromping through the snow. But most of all I was struck by Bruegel’s <em>Fight Between Carnival and Lent</em>, a fantastically deranged scene that captures the blurry line between the sacred and profane.

We came across two more unhappy portraits of Lot and his daughters, a scene that continues to baffle C. and me. Who was this painted for? Sometimes it’s like body horror: all the globs of cherubs in the sky, the bloodied torso of Christ and penitent saints, all the bare-breasted women—there’s just so much flesh at the museum. Or a fever dream captioned with phrases like: “The child playing with an inflated bladder is a reference to the brevity of life.”

Sitting on a bench among gigantic baroque scenes of flagellations and fishmongers, I finally clocked the cinematic nature of painting. Perhaps because C was sitting next to me, saying “It feels like watching movies.” But I’d never considered the artist as a director, each deciding upon the key climactic moment for Cleopatra’s suicide or Judith’s beheading of Holofernes.

So many baroque meals with cozy cakes. A supper of lobster brioche and a trough of mussels. I’m getting fat in Vienna but I dug the tranquility of a dozen cafe lights reflected and multiplied in the window while, outside, people hurry through the February gloom.

### Wednesday, February 4
Here in Vienna, there’s a severe weather alert for “glazed frost”—which sounds very Viennese. But straight to the Belvedere to deal with Gustav Klimt and Egon Schiele, both of whom I’ve misunderstood. Somehow I was not aware of Klimt’s <em>The Kiss</em>, which C finds hard to believe because it wallpapered many dorm rooms alongside Monet’s water lilies. But I never spent much time in those rooms. Klimt’s real masterpiece is his rendering of Judith with an expression so seductive, relaxed, and defiant that the severed head she cradles becomes an afterthought. Maybe it comes down to the gleam of her teeth. Klimt’s work pulls off an interesting feat: flat and graphic yet somehow bathed in atmosphere and light. 

I was startled to discover Schiele had left behind so many distinctive lines before his death at 28, especially those horribly tragic arms in <em>Death and the Maiden</em>.

Another cozy dinner, this time at a place called Restaurant Fürich, and we talked about next year’s art project and dealing with faith with a blank slate while we ate pumpkin risotto, beef cheeks, and cheesecake with raspberry compote.

### Thursday, February 5
It’s an odd sensation to encounter somehing already known through a thousand photographs. Today I saw the Venus of Willendorf. Unlike the Mona Lisa, she was a larger than I expected although not by much. At four or five inches, she was striking not only for her famously exaggerated figure but her total lack of a face, which had been replaced with an intricate pattern. I tried to absorb the aura of being in the presence of a 30,000-year-old relic, and for a moment I saw our ancestors hunched beneath cold stars with a mound of clay. Then a lady jostled me for a closer look and returned me to 2026. I walked away wondering if I could buy a Venus of Willendorf t-shirt in the gift shop.

In the afternoon, we toured Sigmund Freud’s spacious yet drab home and I admired this phrase: “Instincts are mythical entitites, magnificent in their indefiniteness.”

### Friday, February 6
Woke up excited to see more paintings by Schiele. The tumbling drama of his Blind Mother. The eerie color palette of Calvary. In Schiele’s canvases, color becomes sinister and murk feels like safety. From a letter to a friend in 1911, when he painted Revelation: “The oscillations of my astral light becoming faster, more abrupt, simpler, until…”

I’m more intered in light than usual. Even a painting of something as dull as a bucket can hold me for a few minutes if has a nice streak of light.  

Oskar Kokoschuka said, “We are not born human. We must become human.” 

Freud said, “The ego is not master in its own house.”

And Adolf Loos was convinced that “each kind of tiredness requires a different kind of chair.”

### Saturday, February 7
Serves me right. At the Vienna airport I made a judgy comment about some dumbass with a man bun so of course he sat in front of me on the flight to NYC and I had to watch it bobble up and down for nine hours.

### Sunday, February 8
Came home to single digits. It’s so cold in America. The iguanas in Florida are falling out of the trees.

### Monday, February 9
A day of 21st-century fuckery: locked accounts, customer service robots, and unverified trusted devices, but I managed to find my back to the library and into the story I’m writing and it’s nice to be home. I should want to live in Vienna or back in NYC instead of a condo in Ohio and yet…