# January 2026

### Thursday, January 1
We welcomed 2026 with Black Mirror on the television and a Dream Zine session of glue, scissors, and scrap. M brought over a breakfast casserole and C made a wild carbonara while we created strange collages about nightmares and symbols. I accidentally shaved off my beard this morning and now my head looks too small.

### Friday, January 2
A blank grey January day happily spent fine-tuning my Platonic music player devoted to big album artwork and elegant playlists.

### Saturday, January 3
Today our president arrested and possibly kidnapped the president of Venezuala. Every headline is displayed in a big alarming font but I managed to enjoy an afternoon nap on the couch.

### Sunday, January 4
Spent three hours on the telephone with friends in Las Vegas, North Carolina, and New York, and two hours at the kitchen table with M who brought over a gigantic microphone. Topics covered included: 1) greek mythology; 2) whether there’s any truth to the idea that empathy without boundaries leads to self-annhilation; 3)illegal acts of war; 4) best practices for using AI to code; 5) mahjong; and 5) M’s belief that “you can never kill the real.”

### Monday, January 5
Back into the novel and holy fuck there’s a lot of work to be done. Mostly deleting.

### Tuesday, January 6
Got the stitches taken out of my gums and I’m beginning to eat like a person instead of a sickly bird. I’d rather work on coding a music player than finishing a novel. Why?

### Wednesday, January 7
We had our first conversation when we were eighteen years old. Thirty years later, I’m still amazed that I can share a stray thought with her and an hour later we’re still chattering away about all kinds of things.

### Thursday, January 8
A cold January day, completely pointless without any snow, but I’m still working ‘round the clock on Spite and I can’t remember the last time I’ve been this consumed by a project.

### Friday, January 9
She told me I was “ensconced in an ensorcelled world.” So I learned a new word today.

### Sunday, January 11
A quiet Sunday spent recovering from playing a board game with a couple downtown that felt like being given an unsatisfying job. I never had enough ore, wheat, or sheep to do it well.

### Thursday, January 15
Another Midnight Radio night and it’s always an eleventh-hour frazzle, but I haven’t missed an episode in eighteen months. Strange how I honor some self-imposed deadlines while others exist somewhere between comedy and fantasy.

### Friday, January 16
Attended a curator’s tour of Tacita Dean’s work at the Columbus Museum of Art. I tried like hell to be engaged by half-erased analytical diagrams and intensely personal swirls, but mostly I admired her preservation of the ancient technologies of chalkboards, film, and carbon paper. Maybe I don’t like it when people explain art to me.

### Monday, January 19
Subzero temperatures, occasional snow squalls, and my country might invade Greenland. Went to the movies with some friends to see The Bone Temple, a delightfully gruesome and bonkers film about how crisis breeds religion. It made excellent use of Duran Duran. Afterwards, I ate some way-too-spicy ramen.

### Saturday, January 24
They murdered another person in Minneapolis today.

### Monday, January 26
“All roadways are closed to non-emergency personnel. Those traveling on roadways may subject themselves to arrest.” Nobody is allowed to drive, but why would you? From my window, I see only the faintest suggestion of a street.

### Wednesday, January 28
Subzero winds, white skies, and the bare knuckles of trees.

### Thursday, January 29
For having a tablespoon of microplastics in our brains, I think we’re doing pretty great.

### Friday, January 30
Packing for a week in Vienna. I was ruminating about how many pants to bring when C reminded me to look for my passport.

### Saturday, January 31
Woke early to a full moon, excited to travel. Night flight to Vienna. Dawn broke as we descended, and I thought I saw an Alp poking through the clouds. A light snow fell as we entered the city, and C. talked to me about trees: “The smell of pine is actually trees talking to each other.”