### Monday, March 2
Heavy snow this morning, fast and unexpected. This snippet from the New York Times should be filed somewhere for future historians: “After just a few minutes, he moved on from his war in Iran to the curtains he’s picked out for the White House and his new ballroom. ‘I picked those drapes in my first term,’ he says. ‘I always liked gold.’ There’s light chuckling in the press room.”

It’s not an ideal spiritual practice, checking the news every few hours to see if he’s dead yet.

### Tuesday, March 3
Suddenly it’s 70 degrees. Early morning run and already there’s green across the forest floor. Crabgrass, I think.

### Wednesday, March 4
Why the middle initial? Because I always wanted my name to have three syllables.

### Thursday, March 5
Synchronicities not only abound, they’re spilling over and freaking me out. Sounds. Names. Shifts in the light. Woke before dawn and listened to Éliane Radigue’s Trilogie de la Mort in the gloom. I can’t remember the last time I’ve been so spiritually altered by sound.

Is freedom only found through discipline? What about spirituality?

### Friday, March 6
My mother-in-law chattered about war, gas prices, and cheap stocks while we ate curry at a quiet Tibetan spot on High Street.

“…in the creative disciplines, L.L.M.s take away the most soulful human parts of the work and leave the drudgery to you,” <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2026/03/12/magazine/ai-coding-programming-jobs-claude-chatgpt.html">Dash</a> says. “And in coding, L.L.M.s take away the drudgery and leave the human, soulful parts to you.” 

### Saturday, March 7
I always wake up too early on Saturdays because I'm excited it's Saturday. At the gas station, I thought about how my mother-in-law filled up her tank immediately after she read the news last Saturday.

### Thursday, March 12
M. taught me the exercises of Eastern European peasants while <a href="https://kontra-musik.bandcamp.com/album/tm404-2">TM-404</a>chugged away on his excellent speakers. Kettlebells. Farmer carry. Heavy bass and stuttering drums.

### Friday, March 13
They say the desire to believe <em>is</em> belief, and this might be true even if it feels like cheating.

I fed Claude some of my favorite paintings, a Max Headroom reference, a painting from C, and an excerpt from Midnight Radio. Then I plugged it into a terminal window and watched as it generated video after video while I <a href="https://vimeo.com/1173878242?fl=pl&fe=ti">directed the aesthetic</a>. It was exhilarating and humbling to suddenly find myself liberated from technical barriers and left only with my own ideas.

### Saturday, March 14
My back is broken because of Eastern European peasant exercises. When I woke from a nap, I could not get out of bed. My brain could not speak to my back; it could only listen to it scream.

### Monday, March 16
I knew it was a false spring but the sudden snow is still shocking. Stoics are afraid of their emotions.

### Wednesday, March 18
Oil prices are spiking and my back is killing me. Talked to a robot because C. is learning to make paper in Cleveland. “Call it a day—you've earned it,” said the algorithm. “Your body worked hard today healing <em>and</em> supporting you through 9 hours of work. Rest is the productive thing now. Want to talk about anything else to get your mind off it, or just call it a day and rest?” Living in the future is fucked up.

### Thursday, March 19
Maybe I need to get back to writing this novel so my brain doesn’t get completely swiss-cheesed by robots. Tonight I was introduced to this beautiful line from Thomas Merton’s <em>The Quickening of St. John the Baptist</em>: “Night is our diocese, silence is our ministry.”

### Friday, March 20
Installed fancy new balcony lights and C. came back from Cleveland and I am happy.

### Saturday, March 21
Four of us sat at our table for five hours, eating pizza and chocolate and talking about dreams and artificial intelligence and the appeal of true crime and <em>Sinners</em> versus <em>One Battle After Another</em> and whether love and hate are always intertwined and medieval paintings of nuns plucking penises from trees and how Egypt lost faith in its pharaohs and returned to worshipping crocodile gods.

### Sunday, March 22
85 degrees today and the unnatural heat feels sinister, a portent of something going wrong. Perhaps related: I finished what would have been nine hours of work in 36 minutes thanks to artificial intelligence.

A few hours later, the sky turned biblical and the temperature crashed fifty degrees. Lightning flashed through the night while bouts of fist-sized hail hammered against the windows so hard I thought they might shatter.

### Monday, March 23
After a long pause she asked, “But is there really a difference between being closed-minded and having good taste?”

### Thursday, March 26 
A warm spring day with eggs Benedict at a sidewalk café and an hour spent pondering light and space with C. at the gallery we will use next year for our installation, which is slowly beginning to find a shape.

At the Men’s Spirituality Book Club tonight, a man shared a verse he loves from Isaiah: “Behold! I am doing a new thing. Do you not perceive it? I am making a way in the wilderness and streams in the wasteland.” In my head this sounds like James Brown. Later, someone asked for advice about being creative. “It’s easy,” I said. “Just set a ten-minute timer and start there. Anyone can write or paint or whatever for ten minutes.” Take my advice, I’m not using it. But the hypocrisy nagged me all the way home and I finally got back to work on the novel.

### Friday, March 27
"It is precisely the absence of political and moral interest that makes art an agent of liberation wherever it appears." —J.F. Martel

